# Jobly App

This app was written with Express.js on the backend and React.js on the frontend with PostgreSQL as our database. You are able to sign in and create an account and are allowed to interact with different job listings, companies, and user data saved in the PostgreSQL database. 

Using Express.js, I was able to implement a RESTful API backend that provides CRUD capabilities. In order to interact with the database and execute SQL queries, I used the Node PG library. Inside are model classes for companies, jobs, and users. In the company and job models, there are methods that allow for creating, reading, updating, and deleting. This is done by executing specific SQL queries inside each method. There is also a filter method in both classes. For the user class, there are methods to perform CRUD operations as well as apply for jobs. Not only that, I have also included authentication middleware that checks to see if a user has the correct credentials to be performing a command. From here, different RESTful routes were written according to the different class methods.

On the front end, I was able to use React.js to create a single page web app. React Router was used to change the URL and make it easier to bookmark pages. Authentication was implemented by requiring a JSON web token to be in local storage. A useEffect hook was used to check if there was a web token on all protected routes. Once logged in, users are able to see a list of companies as well as the jobs associated with each company. Different components were created such as detail components, list components, and card components. One trade off that was considered was deciding whether or not to include API logic within the different components. The down side to doing this would have been very cluttered React components, littered with SQL in the routes. To get around this, I instead chose to make a single API class that had different helper methods to consolidate all the SQL logic to one file.

